In this section, we're going to take another look at a very commonly used command.
So the command that we're going to look at is Docker.
PS This command will list all the different running containers that are currently on your machine.
Let's try running it right now and just seeing what happens.
I'll flip on over to my terminal and I'll run Docker.
PS When I run this command you're going to see some headers for a table.
At present we have no containers running our machine, so we have no entries inside this table.
At this point we've only been running images or creating containers that run very quickly and then immediately
close down.
So for example, when we were running Docker run, busy box and Echo High there, that container starts
up and then almost immediately exits us back to the command line.
So if we want Docker PS to be meaningful at all, we have to have some container that is running for
some longer amount of time.
In order to get a container running a little bit longer, we could substitute the command that is executed
when that container starts up.
So rather than running echo.
Hi there.
I'll try Docker run busy box and then I'll do ping google.com.
This is a command that's going to attempt to ping Google servers and measure the amount of latency.
It's a command that's going to continue running for a quite a long time.
So here it is running right here.
And as you can see, it takes about two or three milliseconds for me to ping Google and get a response
back.
This command is going to continue running so we can now run Docker PS in a second window and we should
see this container up here in the listing.
I'm going to open up a second terminal window and then I'll execute Docker and when I do so I'll then
see that running container.
I'm going to get this on one line really quickly.
There we go.
So this is a print up for the container that is currently running that was issued the command of ping
google.com.
We also see the containers ID which we can use for a lot of other operations that we'll look into later
on.
We'll see the image that was used for the container.
We can see how long ago it was created.
We get a status currently it's been up for 24 seconds.
We'll see a listing of any ports that have been opened for outside access.
And we're going to talk a lot about ports later on inside this course.
And at the very end, we'll also see a randomly generated name to identify this container.
In my case, the randomly generated name was Epic Corrie.
If I now flip back over to that running ping process, I can press control C on my keyboard to stop
it.
So I'll press control C right now and I get kicked back to my command line.
As you might expect, if I then run Docker a second time, I would not see that container anymore.
So Docker PS specifically shows running containers.
We can modify the Docker PS command just a little bit to show all containers that have ever been created
on our machine.
To do so, we can execute Docker.
PS Dash.
Dash all.
Now just two dashes.
There we go.
When we execute that command, we'll see a listing of all the containers that we have ever created.
And I'm going to zoom out again, again here really quickly, just so I can see this table.
There we go.
So for every one of these containers, these have all been containers that we have started up and then
have either been shut down on our behalf or shut down naturally.
So for each one of them, we'll see the container ID Image Command.
When it was created its current status.
In this case, they're all exited.
Any ports that have been opened up again, we'll talk about those later and the randomly generated name
for each one.
So in practice we're going to end up using the Docker Command quite a bit to see what containers are
currently running on our machine.
One of the most common uses of Docker is not only to see what's running, but also to get the ID of
a running container.
Because, like I said, we very frequently want to issue commands on a very specific container, and
for that we need its ID.
All right.
So that's the Docker command.
Let's take a quick pause right here and continue in the next section.